                Project Demo-I
CSE350 : Digital Electronics and Pulse Techniques



  Project Title (SL 2): - Game Development Using Arduino




             Group No: 06 ; Section: 4B
                      Fall 2025
     ID                             Name


 21201694                    S M ASHRAFUL HUQ


 22201626              MOHAMMAD MUTOASITUZZAMAN


 23301373                     MD SAMSUL HUDA


 23101441                   TARANNUM AL AKIDA
            TIC-TAC-TOE Game Implementation Using Arduino


Abstract:



The following report presents the design and development of an interactive two-player
Tic-Tac-Toe game using Arduino. Basically, this project aims to combine the hardware
components with logical programming to create an engaging, standalone digital gaming system.
The setup consists of a digital display that visually represents the 3×3 game grid and provides a
real-time feedback along with a keypad interface that allows players to input their moves
alternately as “X” or “O” in the game. Basically, the system’s logic is implemented through the
Arduino IDE which handles player turns, validates inputs, detects win or draw conditions and
resets the game upon completion. Once a player successfully aligns three identical symbols in a
row, column or diagonal or when the grid is filled without a winner, the game concludes with the
appropriate result displayed like Win, Lose or Tie.

However, this project demonstrates the effective integration of hardware and software in digital
systems which illustrates how a user interaction can be captured through analog inputs and
processed into digital signals. Not only in gaming but also the same principles can be applied to a
wide range of real world applications which require user input and automated control such as
access control systems, vending machines or elevator floor selectors etc.
Circuit Implementation using Tinkercad:




Here the following image shows the TIC-TAC-TOE circuit implementation with the help of
Arduino Uno.




List of Components:


The components required for this system are as follows:
   1.​ Arduino Uno R3
   2.​ 20 Character 4 Line LCD Display Module
   3.​ 12C LCD Display Adapter
   4.​ 4x4 Keypad
   5.​ Jumper Wires
Components Ordered :




       The following image shows the receipt of components that have been ordered.
Process Description:


   1.​ Connect Keypad pins 1-8 to D2-D9 of the Arduino
   2.​ Attach the 12C module to the LCD Display
   3.​ Make the following connections to the LCD with 12C converter and Arduino:
          a.​ SDA Pin to A4 Pin
          b.​ SCL Pin to A5 Pin
          c.​ VCC to 5V
          d.​ GND Pin to GND
   4.​ Connect Arduino Uno to a Computer and implement the game instruction Sketch using
      Arduino IDE.
